Opportunity
Problem
People in the area need to have a place where working out can be a family activity. Parents can bring children to be taken care of while they do whatever exercise activity they desire. 

Solution
 Fitness Center will expand and create a larger childcare facility. In addition, new equipment will be purchased for the childcare center. The childcare center can currently care for 30 children but only five infants. The new facility will be able to handle up to 60 children including 15 infants. The childcare facility expansion will be funded with a short-term loan.

Market
Monroe is a city on the move. The population has grown by 15% each year for the past three years. The current population of Monroe is 600,000. Most importantly, the growth has been fueled by the increased employment in the city’s high-tech companies. This has attracted a type of professional that is the target customer for the Mountain Brook Fitness Center.

Competition
There are other gyms in the area. However, we are one of a kind since we are focused on families.  They can come and do things together or do separate things and then grab lunch after. 

Why Us?
The Fitness Center is a thriving business-person’s club but is also one of the only family-focused clubs in the Monroe area. Fifty percent of our members are under the age of 45 and have young children. Currently, the center has 900 members. A center membership is $800 a year. The Mountain Brook Fitness Center wants to add an additional 300 members with families over the next three years.

Expectations
Forecast
Of course, our forecast depends on key assumptions, especially retention. We think, however, that we can launch and reach critical mass early enough to establish profitability from year 1. 

Financial Highlights by Year
Chart visualizing the data for Financial Highlights by Year
Need actual charts? We recommend using LivePlan as the easiest way to create graphs for your own business plan. Create your own business plan
Next: Opportunity 
Start your own workout gym business plan

LivePlan logo
Your business plan can look as polished and professional as this sample plan. It's fast and easy, with LivePlan.

